Delivery Tips:

* Think about how long you're talking
* Move quicker sooner, slower later
* Cold Call more often
* Revisit LOs
* Defer questions when appropriate

# Backbone Models

## Learning Objectives

- Explain what a FEFW is and why we use them
- Convention over Configuration
- Use localStorage to store data in the browser
- Explain CRUD
- Use a Backbone Model to manage data in the browser

## Outline

# PUT UP SCREEN IF DOWN

WRITE ON BOARD

Framework -> Convention over Configuration -> Backbone -> Model + View

### What is a Framework?

- A set of conventions used to provide structure to code. Attempts to abstract common actions (setting up a folder structure, including certain libraries) and functionality (adding a storage layer, configuring settings/environment ) into a concise unit. Provide a rigid structure.

- made to solve a common problem

RAILS

Also, there is this idea of convention over configuration...

### Convention over Configuration

- Paradigm of design that focuses on upholding the rules of a certain softwares conventions, so that there is no need for configuration. They've done the configuration for you. No need to reinvent the wheel.

As long as you follow conventions, you should not run into an issues.

DOES THIS MEAN YOU CANT CONFIGURE? NO!...it's just best not to.

### What is Backbone?

# DRAW ON BOARD

- Written by Jeremy Ashkenas
- Framework for organizing and structuring our code in the browser.

Focuses on the use the use of two major components for organizing code in the browser
- Model - your data
- View - the representation of your data

-> Bind the data to its appearance on the dom

### Framework or Library??

- Backbone does not dictate how we should organize or structure our application (files, naming of things). Not very rigid at all.
- It suggests a way to organize and structure the code responsible for managing your data and updating the DOM when your data changes
- Contrary to most frameworks, backbone encourages configuration, but not at the expense of stability. It gives you a set of tools and allows you to use them as you please.

Sort of like jQuery makes dom manipulation a little easier in the browser. Things like Backbone make data manipulation and binding a little easier.


# What's a dependency??? Piece of software required in order to run

- Dependencies: Underscore, only dependency

# BREAK

### What is a Backbone Model?

A constructor provided by backbone for creating "smart" objects to manage our data in the browser.

# CRUD EXPLAIN IT

Define the model.
Tweed model
	- content
	- author
	- votes

```
var TweedModel = Backbone.Model.extend({
	initialize: function() {
		console.log('Initializing a new Tweed');
	},
	defaults: {
		'content': '',
		'author': '',
		'votes': 0
	}
});
```

- Defining objects in Backbone is done by extending the Constructors that backbone provides us
- This allows us to customize the behavior of our model / how our data can be manipulated

`initialize` -> function that will be run whenever a new model is created. Useful for logging messages
`defaults` -> default set of attributes that will be applied to a new model if attributes are not supplied

### Create a Model

Use the `new` keyword to create a model

- pass an object of attributes to the constructor function that will be set on the new Model
- Will create a new Model
- gives it a temporary id `cid` -> stands for client ID

```
var myFirtTweed = new TweedModel({
	content: 'Is this thing on?',
	author: 'McK'
});

myFirstTweed

```
# RELOAD THE PAGE -> MODELS GONE, let's store it now! BREAK

### What is localStorage?

- A place for us to store data in memory, in our browser. NOT THE FOCUS OF TODAY, just another tool

```
var tweedLocalStorage = new Backbone.localStorage('tweeds');
console.log(twdirLocalStorage.records)
// Add to Model
```

### Store the data of a model

`save` -> will store it in localStorage, get's an ID number

```
var myFirtTweed = new TweedModel({
	content: 'Is this thing on?',
	author: 'McK'
});
myFirstTweed.save();
myFirstTweed
```

# RELOAD -> it's stored, but how do we get it back?

### Read the data of a model

`fetch`

```
var firstTweed = new TweedModel({ id: RECORD ID NUMBER });
firstTweed
firstTweed.fetch();
```

`attributes` -> raw model's data (dont touch)
`toJSON()` -> a copy of the model's data
`get()`-> read a single attribute's value

### Update the data of a model

`set('prop','value')`
`set({a: b, c: d, e: f})`
`save('prop', 'value')`

### Delete the data of a model

`unset('prop')` - will remove an attribute from a model
`destroy()` - will delete and remove the model from localStorage

# BREAK

**We Do** Lets fix our hacky way of getting models

Define a function `fetchAllModels` that will iterate over all of the records stored in twdirLocalStorage creating a new TweedModel for each record. An array of Backbone Models should be returned from the function.

### Build the front end

**Create New Tweed** 10 minutes

Write a function `createTweed`:
- get the values from the content and author input tags
- use the retrieved values to create and store a new Tweed Model

Add a click event on the submit tag that will create a new tweed when clicked

```
var createTweed = function() {
	var data = {
		content: $('[name="content"]').val(),
		author: $('[name="author"]').val()
	};

	var newTweed = new TweedModel(data);
	newTweed.save();
	// renderTweed(newTweed);
};

$('#new-tweed-form').on('click', '[type="submit"]', createNewTweed);
```

**Render Tweed** 30 minutes

Write a function `renderTweed`
- should accept a single parameter, a backbone model
- should build the following html structure:

```
<div class="tweed">
	<p class="content">[CONTENT]</p>
	<p class="author">[AUTHOR]</p>
	<div class="vote">
		<span class="vote-button"> - </span>
		<span class="votes">[VOTES]</span>
		<span class="vote-button"> + </span>
	</div>
	<p class='delete'>delete</p>
</div>
```

- the models attributes should be added as the appropriate text
- the new tweed div should be appended to the `#tweed-collection-view` div

```
var renderTweed = function(model) {
	var tweedsContainer = $('#tweed-collection-view')
	var author = model.get('author');
	var content = model.get('content');
	var votes = model.get('votes');

	var newTweed = $('<div>').addClass('tweed');
	var tweedContent = $('<p>').text(content)
														 .addClass('content');
	var tweedAuthor =  $('<p>').text(author)
														 .addClass('author');
	var votes = $('<div>').addClass('vote')
												.append($('<span>').text(' - ').addClass('vote-button'))
												.append($('<span>').text(votes).addClass('votes'))
												.append($('<span>').text(' + ').addClass('vote-button'));

	var deleteSpan = $('<p>').text('delete')
													 .addClass('delete');

	newTweed.append(tweedContent)
					.append(tweedAuthor)
					.append(votes)
					.append(deleteSpan)
					.appendTo(tweedsContainer);

};
```

**RENDER ALL**

```
var renderAllTweeds = function() {
	var models = fetchAllModels();

	models.forEach(function(model) {
		renderTweed(model);
	});
};
```

# Lesson Plan - Review Notes

Are learning objectives present and complete?
What is the ratio of talking vs. doing? (60/40, TT/ST-wg vs ST-sg / individual)
What is the level of engagement?
Are exercise plans present?
Any pitfalls with the exercises?
