Delivery Tips:

* Think about how long you're talking
* Move quicker sooner, slower later
* Cold Call more often
* Revisit LOs
* Defer questions when appropriate

# Backbone Collections

## Learning Objectives

- Use a Backbone collection to manage our models
- Refactor tWDIr to use a collection

## Outline

# 20 minutes

Read Backbone Docs section on collections. Focus on:

```
model
create
get
fetch
underscore methods
```

# What is a backbone collection?

Way of managing our models.

# Define a collection

```
var twdirLocalStorage = new Backbone.LocalStorage('twdir');

var TweedsCollection = Backbone.Collection.extend({
	initialize: function() {
		console.log('New Tweed Collection');
	},
	model: TweedModel,
	localStorage: twdirLocalStorage
});
```

- set the Model attribute -> tell the collection what type of models it will hold/be able to create
- set the localStorage attribute -> the collection will deal with retrieving/storing models in localStorage

### Let's clean up our model

- remove local storage
- remove fetchAllModels

# BREAK

Now let's refactor our App.js

First we need to create a new collection

```
var App = {
	collection: new TweedsCollection(),
	etc...
};
```

### First - Create

### Second - Render

# BREAK

- RECAP WHAT WE JUST DID

### PRACTICE

**WE DO**
Edit the html of a tweed.
- Add an id attribute to the `div.tweed` container that is the id of the
- Add data attribute -value- to the vote spans
- add data attribute -id- to delete p tag

# Deleting - 20 minutes - 10 minute review

Add a method to the App object `deleteTweed`

- retrieve the id number stored on the delete p tag
- retrieve the relevant model from the collection
- delete the model
- remove the `tweed` div from the DOM related to that model

```
deleteTweed: function() {
	var modelID = $(this).attr('data-id');
	var model = App.collection.get(modelID);
	model.destroy();
	$(this).closest('.tweed').remove();
}
```

# BREAK

# VOTING

**A** 10 minutes, 10 minutes review

Add a method to your TweedModel `updateVotes`
- should accept a single parameter, a voteValue
- should update the models votes attribute by the amount passed by updateVotes

```
updateVotes: function(voteValue) {
	var votes = this.get('votes');
	this.save('votes', votes + voteValue);
}
```

**B** 20 minutes, 10 minutes review

Add a method to the App object `vote`

- retrieve the value stored on the vote button that was clicked
- retrieve the relevant model from the collection
- use the models `updateVotes` method to update the number of votes for that tweed
- update the number of votes displayed on the DOM for that tweed

```
vote: function() {
	var voteValue = parseInt($(this).attr('data-value'));
	var modelID = $(this).closest('.tweed').attr('id');
	var model = App.collection.get(modelID);

	model.updateVotes(voteValue);

	$(this).closest('.tweed')
	       .find('.votes')
	       .text(model.get('votes'));
}
```

# Questions???


# Lesson Plan - Review Notes

Are learning objectives present and complete?
What is the ratio of talking vs. doing? (60/40, TT/ST-wg vs ST-sg / individual)
What is the level of engagement?
Are exercise plans present?
Any pitfalls with the exercises?
