Delivery Tips:

* Think about how long you're talking
* Move quicker sooner, slower later
* Cold Call more often
* Revisit LOs
* Defer questions when appropriate

# Backbone and AJAX

## Learning Objectives

- Explain what CORS is
- Use AJAX with Backbone
- Use Backbone Models/Collections to store API response data
- Practice using AJAX to get remote data

## Outline

### Where are we going?

We are going to build an App that utilizes the iTunes search API. To help organize our code we're going to use our friend Backbone

### What do we want to focus on?

- accessing endpoints on an API
- using our collection to perform ajax calls for data
- using models to store that data temporarily
- rendering data using a view and a template

# CORS - Just watch

- Go to jQuery site and try to make a request to the itunes API

```
$.ajax({
	url: 'https://itunes.apple.com/search?artist=Prince',
	method: 'GET'
})
```

#### What happens??

**DRAW PICTURE ON THE BOARD**

## HOW DO WE GET AROUND THIS??

- Make API requests through a CORS friendly server
- Make API requests through our server and feed the response to JS(not yet)

**Look at the Ruby Server**

Go to the ip address: `http://45.55.149.232/`

## Let's test out the API

**10 minutes** play with the api, see what kind of responses you can get for each endpoint

- test out search for songs
- test out search for artists
- test out search for artist songs
- test out search for apps

# BREAK

## Lets code!

Lets look at the starter code

- html
	- two templates
	- search box with options
- empty views
- models
- collection (where we will live today)

## Make the Models

- artist model
- song model

Nothing inside here except for initialize

## Make the Collection

- No Local Storage -> we don't need to store this data, iTunes is doing it for us! REMOTE DATA APIS WOOOO

- set the API root url -> we are going to do this for everything
- http://45.55.149.232/api/

### searchForSongs

- escape search string
- build search query
- make API request
- define the done function

**TEST IN CONSOLE**

### addSongs

- SEE WHAT DATA WE GET BACK FIRST

- set a property on the collection indicating the current model that it will be storing
- Use map to create new models and store them in an array

- reset the collection using the array of models (LOOK AT DOCS)

### Single View for songs

### Collection View
- click event for search

# BREAK - LUNCH

**YOU DO** 45 minutes - walk around

### searchForArtist

- Make an AJAX request to the proper endpoint that will return search results for an artists name
- set the current model property of the collection to be 'artist'
- on DONE use the callback `addArtists` to create new artist models

### Add Artists

- Use map to create an array of models holding the return from the API request
- Reset the collection using the array of models

### renderArtistResults

- edit your collection view so that render results will display the proper views for an artist

**REVIEW** - student solution??

# BREAK

Define a function searchForArtistSongs that accepts a single parameter( an artist name )
and will:

- perform an AJAX request to the proper endpoint for getting the tracks belonging to an object.
- Use the `addSongs` callback for your done function

**REVIEW** student solution???

## BONUS

- add search for apps
- add template for apps
- add view for apps

# Lesson Plan - Review Notes

Are learning objectives present and complete?
What is the ratio of talking vs. doing? (60/40, TT/ST-wg vs ST-sg / individual)
What is the level of engagement?
Are exercise plans present?
Any pitfalls with the exercises?
