Delivery Tips:

* Think about how long you're talking
* Move quicker sooner, slower later
* Cold Call more often
* Revisit LOs
* Defer questions when appropriate

# Backbone Views

## Learning Objectives

* Use a Backbone view to render a model to the page
* Set up model and collection events on Backbone views
* Set up user events on Backbone views

### Where are we so far?

**I do**

* Whiteboard backbone models and collections
* Let's concern ourselves with a single model
* We want to see it on the page.
* Whiteboard the backbone view-model MO

### Along came a view

**You do**

* Create a template for tweed structure, with id of `tweed-template`
* Create the file `js/tweedView.js`
* Inside this file, create a view constructor as follows

```javascript
var TestView = Backbone.View.extend();
```

**You do**

Dive into backbone docs. Research

* el
* template
* render

And discuss what you think this means with your partner.

**I do - you follow**

* el - is for my piece of the big DOM tree
* template - is for the way that you'll see me
* render - is how you tell me to fill my el
* toJSON - is to objectify a model for Handlebar eyes

```javascript
var TweedView = Backbone.View.extend({
  el: '#test',

  initialize: function() {
    this.template = Handlebars.compile($('#tweed-template').html());
  },

  render: function() {
    this.$el.html(this.template(this.model.toJSON()));
  }
});

```

**BREAKTIME**

**I do - you follow**

* Let's make our view listen for changes on our model!
* `this.listenTo(this.model, 'change', this.render)`
* Let's make our view pass listen for user events and manipulate our model
  accordingly
* `events` hash, `upvote` and `downvote` functionality

**RECAP**

What have we done so far?

* Created a view
* Views are responsible for maintaining an up-to-date representation of your data
* They are also responsible for relaying events

**BREAK?**

**I do**

* Whiteboard the collection holding models
* Differentiate between 'absolute' views, and 'partial' views
* Our goal is to have a single 'tweeds' abs view, that will render a bunch of
  'tweed' partial views

```javascript
var TweedView = Backbone.View.extend({
  className: 'tweed', // this used to be an el

  initialize: function() {
    this.template = Handlebars.compile($('#tweed-template').html());
    this.listenTo(this.model, 'change', this.render);
    this.render();
  },

  render: function() {
    this.$el.html(this.template(this.model.toJSON()));
  }
});

```

**You do**

* Set up a `TweedsListView`
  * Create the file
  * Define the constructor
  * Ensure that the view will be tied to `#tweed-collection-view`
  * Set up an initialize function that will `console.log('Tweeds List View, reporting for duty')`

**We do - pairs**

* Write a render function for the TweedsListView, and...
* Instead of `console.log`-ing, have the initialize function call the render function
* The render function should
  * Empty the view's el
  * Iterate over the view's collection. For each model,
    * Create a TweedView
    * Append the TweedView's el to this view's el

* Get this working with a .fetch({success: callback})
* Refactor to a .fetch({reset: true})

**BREAKTIME**

### Looking back

* I whiteboard everything we just did conceptually
* You take 10 minutes to look through the code we've written and write down questions
* Then you ask questions, and I answer to the class

# Lesson Plan - Review Notes

* Are learning objectives present and complete?
* What is the ratio of talking vs. doing? (60/40, TT/ST-wg vs ST-sg / individual)
* What is the level of engagement?
* Are exercise plans present?
* Any pitfalls with the exercises?
