Delivery Tips:

* Think about how long you're talking
* Move quicker sooner, slower later
* Cold Call more often
* Revisit LOs
* Defer questions when appropriate

# Model Validations

## Learning Objectives

- Describe the different layers of data validations
- Explain what a model validation is
- Explain why we use model validations
- Define a sequelize model with validations

## Outline

#### What are the different layers of data validations

```
client-side validations -> validate user input
					|
					V
model-level validations -> validate data sent to the server
					|
					V
database-level validations -> validate the data trying to be stored
```

#### client

Client side validations are the first line of defense for bad data input

- Validate information being input to forms
- Use javascript to read the values of the inputs
- define functions that will check that the values conform
	to a certain set of constraints

#### Common Ones

- email format
- password
	- length
	- composition
- username
	- length
	- composition
- address field

## But why?

- Can stop the information before you ever make a request to the server
- Ensure that only good data is sent to the server
- maintain consistency

#### model

Server side validations exist on the Model level -> interface between the server and the database

- Validate information that is attempting to be saved into the database
- Utilize sequelize to define a set of validation constraints that will prevent
	bad data from getting into our database

###### If we have client-side validations why have model validations?
- certain information is only able to be validated after a request is made
	and you have access to the database
	- uniqueness of username
	- uniqueness of email
- seed files using API data

#### database

Database validations exist on the lowest level -> last line of defense

- Use constraints on the database columns that prevent bad data from being saved

###### What property of databases does this uphold?

CONSISTENCY

- validate data types
	- varchar -> length, type
	- integer
	- float
	- boolean
- validate presence (NOT NULL)

### BUT WHY!?!?!

We want to ensure the quality of our data as much as possible. To do this we set validations at every layer of our application.

```
client-side validations    -> CLIENT APPLICATION
					|
					V
model-level validations    -> SERVER APPLICATION
					|
					V
database-level validations -> PERSISTENCE
```

# BREAK

### LETS ADD SOME VALIDATIONS

#### SETUP -> 20 minutes

```javascript

// make a new folder called validations_ex

npm init

npm install --save sequelize pg pg-hstore

sequelize init

// edit database config to use the sandbox database
// generate an empty migration and model

sequelize model:generate --name users --attributes "name:string"

```

**WE DO**

```
**edit** name -> add :> unique: true after the datatype declaration
email -> string :> add unique: true
photo_url -> string
age -> integer
birthdate -> date
state -> string
hometown -> string
active -> boolean
favorite_food -> string
**edit** created_at
**edit** updated_at
```

Migrate your table. (Drop the table first if necessary)

##### not null `allowNull: false`

- add a validation to our name column that will make sure that it cannot be null
- goes outside of the validate object

##### unique `unique: true`
- validates uniqueness of that attribute in the database

#### inside of validate: {}

- `isAlphanumeric: true`
	- validates alphanumericality
	- no spaces
	- no dashes

# MAKE A FILE PLAYGROUND.JS and test to see if it works!

`User.create().then(success, err)`

#### email format `isEmail: true`

**YOU DO** 5 minutes

> Read: http://docs.sequelizejs.com/en/latest/docs/models/#validations

**YOU DO**

Add validations to the remaining attributes:

- photo_url
	- not null
	- must be a valid url
- age
	- not null
	- must be an integer
	- must be between 16 and 120
- birthdate
	- not null
	- must be date
	- must be after Jan 1, 1895
- state
	- not null
	- must be either NY, CA, GA, IL, WA, MA, or TX
- hometown
	- not null
	- no numbers or symbols allowed
- active
	- default value of true
- favorite_food
	- not null
	- must be defined -> no empty strings

After you add each validation test to make sure that it works and that you cannot create an invalid entry

### Let's make our error messages make more sense

```
validate: {
	validator: { msg: 'SOME MESSAGE' }
	validator: { args: [8], msg: 'ANOTHER MESSAGE'}
}
```

**YOU DO** add semantic error messages!

# Lesson Plan - Review Notes

Are learning objectives present and complete?
What is the ratio of talking vs. doing? (60/40, TT/ST-wg vs ST-sg / individual)
What is the level of engagement?
Are exercise plans present?
Any pitfalls with the exercises?
