Delivery Tips:

* Think about how long you're talking
* Move quicker sooner, slower later
* Cold Call more often
* Revisit LOs
* Defer questions when appropriate

# Model Validations

## Learning Objectives

- Add server-side validations
- Add semantic error messages for failed validations
- Add client-side error messages for failed validations

## Outline

#### Setup
npm install
createdb ga_app_development

#### Migrations

Define migrations three tables:

- campuses
	- name -> unique
	- capacity
	- address
	- city
	- president
	- active
- courses
	- name
	- length
	- category
	- start_date
	- end_date
	- capacity
- students
	- first_name
	- last_name
	- age
	- email -> unique
- courses_students

migrate!

#### Define your models and add validations, DO NOT USE A GENERATOR!

**Remember to add relationships between your tables**

Start with campuses and define validations on the model.

- campuses
	- name -> unique, not null
	- capacity -> integer, between 40 and 1000
	- address - not null, must be defined
	- city - not null, must be:
		- 'Berlin'|'Chicago'|'New York City'|'Boston'|'Los Angeles'|'San Francisco'|'Austin'|'Seattle'|'Atlanta'|'Sydney'|'Melbourne'|'Hong Kong'|'London'
	- president - not null, must be defined
	- active - defaults to true

Test out your validations by submitting ajax calls through the browser to the post route for campuses. The route should return the list of validation errors

# BREAK AND REVIEW

- courses
	- name -> not null, must be defined
	- length -> integer, must be within 1 and 12 weeks
	- category -> Must be one of the following: 'Workshop'|'Part-Time'|'Immersive'
	- start_date -> is a date, after 1/1/2012
	- end_date -> is a date, after 1/1/2012
	- capacity -> integer, between 0 and 70


# BREAK AND REVIEW

- students
	- first_name -> must be defined
	- last_name -> must be defined
	- age -> integer, must be btween 18-120
	- email -> unique, must be a valid email


# BREAK and REVIEW

# Add error messages client side!

# Lesson Plan - Review Notes

Are learning objectives present and complete?
What is the ratio of talking vs. doing? (60/40, TT/ST-wg vs ST-sg / individual)
What is the level of engagement?
Are exercise plans present?
Any pitfalls with the exercises?
