Delivery Tips:

* Think about how long you're talking
* Move quicker sooner, slower later
* Cold Call more often
* Revisit LOs
* Defer questions when appropriate

# Welcome to WDI

## Learning Objectives

- Framing
- Explain the difference between a reference and a value
- List the Primitive Data Types in JS
- Use variables to store data
- Describe the use of abstraction in programming

## Outline

# Framing - 15 minutes - TIMEBOX BRO
- Marathon not a Sprint
- Emotional Roller Coaster - DRAW ON BOARD
- Fearless
	- computers are dumb
	- fuck it, break it -> just try it out!
- Trust
	- us
	- yourself
	- each other
- Fun

# Computers are dumb!

We need to tell our computers exactly what to do, in explicit order, in order for it to function.
Really good at doing math with big numbers and processing information, as long as we tell it how to do it.

**How do we do that?**

#### Algorithms!
- set of instructions for accomplishing a task
- break down a task into smaller and smaller components
- High level overview of your task

**You Do** 5 minutes -> 10 minutes review

With a partner, try to write out an algorithm for creating a PB&J sandwich

Get 3 groups to give their instructions -> All different, but reach the same goal
- A million ways to do the same thing in programming, no right way!

# Just listen and take notes for this part

# Reference v Value

#### Data

What data do we have in JS? What do they look like?

String -> `'Hello world!'`
Number -> `1337`
Boolean -> `true, false`
null / undefined / NaN

Array -> `['Toy Story', 'Toy Story 2', 'Toy Story 3']`
Object -> `{ cohortName: 'McClane', className: 'Web Development Immersive' }`

#### Store data

define a string and try to reference it again, CANT

**DONT WANT TO TYPE THE SAME THING OVER AND OVER**

**What is a variable?**
A way of storing a reference to some value or data. Should be named in a way that represents what it is storing. Should be named semantically.

Variable declaration: `var`
Variable naming: `var camelCase`
Variable ending: `var camelCase;`
Variable assignment: `=`

**I Do**
define some variables -> store some strings in them
reference the variables
define a variable whose value is the result of using two previous references

```
var one = 1;
var two = 2;
var three = one + two;

one
two
three

```

# Abstraction

Did we have to define how a string should be able to be made, how we are able to use it?

*No!* all of this is abstracted away from us, because it is not necessary to know in order to make a program. Don't need to worry about it (most times)

Programming is about working with a series of abstractions, reducing complexity with each abstraction we make. Hide the nitty gritty details

electrons > memory > machine language > programming language > operating system > GUI

We're going to break down the first wall of abstraction and learn how to build the things we interact with every day.

We're going to be doing this everyday for the next 12 weeks!


# IF MORE TIME ASK ABOUT PRE-WORK

* pros
* cons

# LURNCH!!

# Lesson Plan - Review Notes

Are learning objectives present and complete?
What is the ratio of talking vs. doing? (60/40, TT/ST-wg vs ST-sg / individual)
What is the level of engagement?
Are exercise plans present?
Any pitfalls with the exercises?

