Delivery Tips:

* Think about how long you're talking
* Move quicker sooner, slower later
* Cold Call more often
* Revisit LOs
* Defer questions when appropriate

# Strings Numbers and Control Flow

## Learning Objectives

- Explain what a string is in JS
- Explain what a number is in JS
- Name the truthy and falsey values in JS
- Use control flow structures to make our applications more dynamic

## Outline

# MAKE AN INDEX.HTML
# Make AN APP.JS

# String

### What is a string?

- a string is an organized collection of characters.
- can be made with `''` or `""` -> both considered the same in JS
	- becomes important when using special characters like `'` in a single-quoted string. must escape it!
- an immutable piece of data (what?)
	- once a string is made, it cannot be changed.
- Isn't this limiting?
	- **no! it's safe!** can be sure that anytime we utilize a variable holding a string it will be the same
	- **we make new ones!** can use methods to make new strings and store them
- Can we exploit the ordered nature of a string?
	- each character is at a specific index, which allows you to find individual elements within the string
	- this can be useful when using certain methods!
	- it has a definite length!

```
var statement = 'Hello World';

statement[0]
=> 'H'

statement[6]
=> 'W'

statement[6] = 'C'
statement
//=> 'Hello World'

statement.length
=> 11
```

### Methods

```
var helloWorld = "Hello";
helloWorld = helloWorld + " World";
helloWorld - "World"
//=> NaN
console.log('hello world ->', helloWorld);
var hello = helloWorld.slice(0, 5);
console.log('hello -> ', hello);
hello.toLowerCase() //=> 'hello'
hello.toUpperCase() //=> 'HELLO'
var goodbye = helloWorld.replace(hello, "Goodbye");
console.log('goodbye -> ', goodbye);
```

- All string methods return a new string!
- in order to make use of it we have to store it in a variable!

# BREAK

# Numbers

### How does JS do numbers?

- all numbers in JavaScript are 64-bit floating point numbers!
- Everything is a float -> just an approximation of a real number
- numbers are also immutable!
- not indexed, can't access individual digits

```
1.3 - 1.2
=> 0.10000000000000009

(1.234)[0]
=> undefined
```

- if they are too large they are represented using Scientific Notation
- what does that mean? Numbers in JS are imprecise and we must account for that when doing certain things
	- monetary calculations
- BUT for the most part we can rest assured that most numbers will behave the way we expect

```
var bigNumber = 123238941570392487028374036408726534;
bigNumber
=> 1.2323894157039249e+35
```

### Methods

```
var myFavoriteNumber = 88;

var myOtherFavoriteNumber = (myFavoriteNumber + 12) * 13.37;

var stringNumber = "355";

stringNumber + 5;
//=> "3555"

parseInt(stringNumber) + 5;
//=> 360

stringNumber - 5;
//=> 350
```

# BREAK

# Booleans and the Like

### What is a Boolean value?

An immutable value that is either `true` or `false`

But in JavaScript there are other things that can act like booleans. They are truthy values, and falsey value

### What are the truthy values?

Any string that has a length, a number greater than or less than 0, any other object in JavaScript

### What are the falsey values?

```
null
undefined
0
''
NaN
```

# Control Flow

### What is control flow?

Booleans can be used to manipulate the flow of execution in an application. We call this controlling the flow of the application. The simplest control flow structure is the if/else if/else conditional statement.

### How do we utilize it?

```
if (true) {
	console.log('Do Something');
} else if (true) {
	console.log('Do Something Else');
} else {
	console.log('Catch Everything Else');
}
```

Must make sure to include the opening AND closing brackets for the code you want to run for each condition.
Must make sure that the condition is inside of parentheses

### Boolean Operators

Allow us to handle more complex conditions in our applications.

```
&&
||
!
```

```
true && true

false && true

false || true

true || false

!true
!!false
```

**Where have we seen dual conditions in a conditional statement before?**
We've seen dual conditions in a conditional statement in order to make FizzBuzz?

```
var isLost = true;
var isLooking = true;

var hasFallen = false;
var willBeCaught = false;

if (isLost && isLooking) {
	console.log('You will find me');
} else if (hasFallen && willBeCaught) {
	console.log('I will be waiting');
}
```

### Comparison Operators

```
1 > 2
1 >= 1
3 < 5
5 <= 5
3 != 4
1 == 1
1 == '1'
1 === 1
1 === '1'
1 !== 1
1 !== '1'
```

```
var votesForBeyonce = 1000;
var votesForAnyoneElse = 1001;

if ( votesForAnyoneElse > votesForBeyonce ) {
	console.log("Here come's another Kanye rant");
} else {
	console.log("Kanye shrug ¯\\_(ツ)_/¯");
}
```

**Both Boolean operators and comparison operators can be used to evaluate a boolean value**

# BREAK

#### Exercise

Prompt can be used to get user Input! will make a pop-up box appear for input. When it is submitted you can catch the submitted value in a variable to use in your program

```
var input = prompt("What's up?");
```

# Air Conditioner - 20-30 minutes

In a new file: `ac.js`

Using booleans, and conditional statements create an air conditioner program. To start it should prompt the user for the current temperature, then prompt the user a second time for the temperature they would like it to be. If the desired temperature is more than the current temperature, print the following statement to the console: `Turning off the A/C! It's too cold!`, if the desired temperature is less than the current temperature, print the following statement to the console: `Turning on the A/C! It's boiling in here!`, else if the temperatures are the same, print the following statement to the console: `A perfect temperature. Keep the cool!`.

```
var currentTemperature = parseInt( prompt( "What's the current temperature?" ) );
var desiredTemperature = parseInt( prompt( "What temperature would you like?" ) );

if (currentTemperature === desiredTemperature) {
	console.log('A perfect temperature. Keep the cool!');
} else if (currentTemperature > desiredTemperature) {
	console.log("Turning on the A/C! It's boiling in here");
} else if (currentTemperature < desiredTemperature) {
	console.log("Turning off the A/C! It's too cold!");
}
```

# Temperature Converter 20-30 minutes

In a new file: `tempConverter.js`

Prompt the user for two inputs: a temperature, and a temperature scale they would like to convert that temperature to.

The options for temperature scales should be: `F to C or C to F`

If a user selects `C to F` then the temperature the user first input should be assumed to be in Celsius, and should therfore be converted to the Fahrenheit temperature.

If a user selects `F to C` then the temperature the user first input should be assumed to be in Fahrenheit, and should therefore be converted to the Celsius temperature.

Use console.log to print the results of each calculation to the console.

```
var temperature = parseInt( prompt('Give me a temperature') );
var convertTo = prompt('F to C OR C to F ?');

if (convertTo === 'F to C' || convertTo === 'f to c') {
	var converted = ( temperature - 32 ) * (5 / 9 );
	console.log(converted);
} else if (convertTo === 'C to F' || convertTo === 'c to f') {
	var converted = ( ( temperature * 9 ) / 5 ) + 32;
	console.log(converted);
}
```

# Calculator 20 minutes

In a new file: `calculator.js`

Prompt the user for 3 input values: 2 numbers, and a math operation.

Define a conditional statement that will perform the following calculator operations:

* addition
* subtraction
* multiplication
* division
* exponents

Can you make sure that 0-division does not occur?
Can you make sure that if a user does not enter anything the value is set to 0?

```
var firstNumber = parseInt( prompt('Please enter a number') ) || 0;
var secondNumber = parseInt( prompt('Please enter a second number') ) || 0;
var operation = prompt('Please enter a math operation:  Add, Subtract, Multiply, Divide, Exponent').toLowerCase();

if (operation === 'add') {
	console.log( firstNumber + secondNumber );
} else if (operation === 'subtract') {
	console.log( firstNumber - secondNumber );
} else if (operation === 'multiply') {
	console.log( firstNumber * secondNumber );
} else if (operation === 'divide' && secondNumber) {
	console.log( firstNumber / secondNumber );
} else if (operation === 'divide' && secondNumber === 0) {
	console.log('ZERO DIVISION!!!');
} else if (operation === 'exponent') {
	console.log( Math.pow(firstNumber, secondNumber) );
} else {
	console.log('Your math is bad and you should feel bad');
}
```

# Lesson Plan - Review Notes

Are learning objectives present and complete?
What is the ratio of talking vs. doing? (60/40, TT/ST-wg vs ST-sg / individual)
What is the level of engagement?
Are exercise plans present?
Any pitfalls with the exercises?

