Delivery Tips:

* Think about how long you're talking
* Move quicker sooner, slower later
* Cold Call more often
* Revisit LOs
* Defer questions when appropriate

# Git

## Learning Objectives

- Explain what git is
- Initialize a git repository
- Use git to track changes to a file
- Use git to save a snapshot of a file

## Outline

### What is git?

**DRAW OUT ON BOARD**

Version control system that tracks and logs changes made to files. It views the state of a file/files in a project as a `version` of that project. When a file is changed it keeps track of those changes and allows you to make a snapshot, a look at that file in the current version. To save the current version of a project git creates something called a `commit`.

A commit is a collection of all of the snapshots taken in the current version, and represents a new version of the project.

A commit is a fingerprinted, timestamped, commented representation of all changes that have been made to the project since the previous version. It exists locally!

### Why is this useful?

- Can make changes to a project without fear that you will mess up the entire codebase
- Can take a look back in time as a project progresses
- Commits provide a papertrail -> each commit has a message detailing the changes that were made, and the files that were changed.

## How do we utilize git **WE DO**

Create a folder in your wdi folder on your computer called `git_test`

### GIT INIT

- `git init` will create a new git repository in a folder.
- **NEVER DO THIS IN YOUR HOME DIRECTORY**
- a repository is just a storage location
- will create a hidden folder `.git` where it will store all of the different versions of our repository
- `git status`

Create a new file called `readme.md`
Open the folder in Sublime Text and add your name to file, and save it
Go back to your terminal and type `git status`

### GIT ADD

- `git add [filename]`
- will add snapshot of a file to the 'staging area'
- the staging area is where you temporarily hold the snapshots you are going to use to make a new version of your repository

```
git add readme.md
git status
```

### GIT COMMIT
- `git commit -m "some commit message"`
- will save and log a new version of the repository and store it within the .git folder
- every commit is fingerprinted so you can identify specific versions
- always leave a message describing the changes that occurred for that commit

```
git commit -m "added readme file with my name"
git status
```

### GIT LOG
- `git log`
- see log of all git activity for the repository

**YOU DO**

Change the readme to include your favorite movie and food.
`git status`
Create a new file called `dummy.txt` and write some gibberish in the file
`git status`
Commit only the changes you made to the `dummy.txt` file. Then check `git log`.
Commit the changes made to the `readme.md` file, then check `git log`.

# Lesson Plan - Review Notes

Are learning objectives present and complete?
What is the ratio of talking vs. doing? (60/40, TT/ST-wg vs ST-sg / individual)
What is the level of engagement?
Are exercise plans present?
Any pitfalls with the exercises?

