Delivery Tips:

* Think about how long you're talking
* Move quicker sooner, slower later
* Cold Call more often
* Revisit LOs
* Defer questions when appropriate

# The Incredible, Mutable Array

## Learning Objectives

- Explain what an array is in JS
- Create a new array and use it to store values
- Access and change the elements of an array
- Add elements to and remove elements from an array

## Outline

### What is an array?

An array is an ordered collection of values that relies on a rigid structure for organizing itself.
Things that are stored in an array are called elements, and each element occupies a discrete location inside of the array.
These discrete locations are called indexes, and are accessed by an integer representing their location within the array.

### How do we make an array?
Using array literal notation:

```
var anArray = [];
var myArray = ['a', 'b', 'c'];

var myArrayLength = myArray.length;
console.log(myArrayLength);
```

### How do we access array elements?

The first index of an array is always going to be `0`. The next index will be one more than the last, up until the end of the array.
The final index of an array is always going to be the length of the array - 1.

To gain access we must use the `index` operator for the array. This is represented by two hard brackets. Inside of the hard brackets you provide an index number.
This will ask the array to search within itself to see if it is storing anything at one of its indexes (or indices)

No negative indexes cannot be used in JS.

```
myArray[0]
=> 'a'

myArray[2]
=> 'c'

myArray[myArrayLength - 1]
=> 'c'
```

### How do we change elements in an array?

The index operator can also be used to set values within the array.

```
myArray[1] = 'B';

console.log(myArray);

myArray[3];
=> undefined

myArray[3] = 'd';
myArray;
=> ['a', 'b', 'c', 'd']

myArray[50]
=> undefined

myArray[50] = 'poop';
myArray.length
=> 51
```

You can put things anywhere inside of an array, BUT the structure is rigid and must maintain it's order.
If a value has not been set explicitly JS will put `undefined` in it's place.
There was nothing between the previous last index and the index of 50 so JS filled the remaining indexes with `undefined`

### How do we add elements to an array?

Adding at specific indexes can lead to some unexpected behavior. In most cases you will rely on the `push()` and `unshift()` methods to add elements to an array.

```
var instructors = ['hari', 'will'];

instructors.push('tony');

instructors.unshift('mck');

instructors
```

### How do we remove elements from an array?

When removing elements you will mostly rely on the `pop()` and `shift()` methods to remove elements from an array

```
var basicBrands = ['Gucci', 'Louis', 'Fendi', 'Prada'];

basicBrands.pop();

basicBrands.shift();

basicBrands
```

# Exercises

#### Little Timmy Runs Laps - 10 minutes
In the chrome console:

Timmy is running laps! Let's use an array to keep track of his lap times.

* Create an empty array called `lapTimes` to store Timmy's lap times
* Timmy's first lap was 53 seconds. Make your array reflect this using `push`
* Timmy's second lap was 59 seconds. Make your array reflect this using `push`
* Timmy's third lap was 52 seconds. Make your array reflect this using `push`
* It turns out Timmy had already run a lap of 55 seconds before we got to the field. Make your array reflect this using `unshift`
* Timmy's last lap (the 52-seconds one) was disqualified because of excessive tail wind. Remove it from the array using `pop`

Great! We've got Timmy's lap times. Now, access the array you've created to find the following information.

* How many laps did Timmy run?
* What is the lap time of Timmy's second lap?
* What is the lap time of Timmy's last lap?
* What is the lap time of Timmy's first lap?

### Array Manipulation - 20 minutes
In a file `shoppingCart.js`

```
var gameboy = [ 'Game Boy', 'Nintendo', 149.99 ];
var pokemon = [ 'Pokemon Blue', 'NINTENDO', 49.99 ];
var tetris = [ 'Tetris', 'SEGA', 49.99 ];
```
How would you:

* Change the name of the gameboy to be `Game Boy Color`.
* Change the company of the pokemon game to be the capitalized version of Nintendo.
* Remove the price of Tetris and store it in a variable `oldPrice`, then add a new price `9000.99` to the tetris array.
* Set the company of the tetris array to `Nintendo`

```
gameboy[0] = 'Game Boy Color';
pokemon[1] = pokemon[1][0] + pokemon[1].slice(1).toLowerCase();
var oldPrice = tetris.pop();
tetris.push(9000.99)
tetris[1] = 'Nintendo';
```

### Nested Arrays - 20 minutes

Create a new array `cart`. Add the gameboy, pokemon, and tetris arrays to the cart array.

How would you:

* Access the name of the pokemon game through the cart variable?
* Access the price of the tetris game?
* Change the price of the tetris game to be `9001`?
* Change the name of the gameboy in the cart back to 'Game Boy';

```
var cart = [gameboy, pokemon, tetris];
cart[1][0];
cart[2][2];
cart[2][2] = 9001;
cart[0][0] = 'Game Boy';
```

* Look at the original variables and look at the values stored in the cart array.
* Did changing the array values in the cart array affect the values of the original arrays?
* Why?

**REMEMBER**
When we use a variable we are referencing the original value stored there. Cart is just an array, holding references to the three original arrays. If we change the arrays within cart it is the same as changing the original arrays directly.

`slice` will give us a copy of the array -> safer.

# Lesson Plan - Review Notes

Are learning objectives present and complete?
What is the ratio of talking vs. doing? (60/40, TT/ST-wg vs ST-sg / individual)
What is the level of engagement?
Are exercise plans present?
Any pitfalls with the exercises?
