Delivery Tips:

* Think about how long you're talking
* Move quicker sooner, slower later
* Cold Call more often
* Revisit LOs
* Defer questions when appropriate

# Relational Databases

## Learning Objectives

* Explain what a database is and why you would use one as opposed to other
  persistent storage mechanisms
* Explain how a DBMS, a database, and SQL relate to one another
* Explain ACID in layman's terms
  * Atomicity
  * Consistency
  * Isolation
  * Durability
* Translate a real world domain into an Entity Relationship Diagram

## Outline

# FRAME THE WEEK

### So far...

- We've been using OPD
	- Other People's Data

- Where have we been storing the data that we do have?
	- localStorage
	- limited to the browser, can't be shared

- We need a way to persist information and share it with others

# DATABASE + SERVER!

Today we will focus on the Persistence layer, a database
Tue - Serving json from our own server -R--
Wed - C-UD on our own server
Thu - Data Relationships
Fri - REVIEW

## Database

- What is it?

An organized system for storing data, that provides a set of conventions for structuring and manipulating our data

### FIRST

- Why not just store things in a file like our programs?
	- performance -> as it grows, performance drops
	- access -> multiple people editing at the same time

### How do databases solve this?

- Built specifically for managing data with a series of checks and balances. Most databases are made based on the principles of ACID

**YOU DO** 5 min research 5 min share-out

* Atomicity - row 1
* Consistency - row 2
* Isolation - row 3
* Durability - row 4

### How are they setup?

- Tables
- rows store individual references to data
- columns indicated what type of data is being stored
- Speak a language called SQL that allows for creating, reading, updating and destroying information (tables, info in tables)

### How do we talk to our database?

We need a middleman - DBMS

- Program that gives us an interface to our database for creating/destroying databases, switching between databases, executing sql commands.

- We will use one called Postgres
	- open source
	- robust and customizable

Bank Analogy

Our database is a sweet off shore bank that stores all of your valuables in fireproof/waterproof/airproof/earthquake proof safe deposit boxes.
But all the workers speak SQL, and you dont. Whenever you want to access your valuables you need to bring a translator who can mediate your transactions.
The translator is Postgres.

Type `psql`

# BREAK

### Let's set up our first database!

First we need to model our table, just like we model our objects in programming. How do we want to represent the data we are storing.

### How? ERDs

- Entity Relationship Diagram
- Draw a box -> represents your table
- attributes go inside the box
- NO behaviors, that's defined by the application
- datatypes -> in what format should we store the data

Model a Person

- name -> string
- age -> integer
- birthday -> date
- has_glasses -> boolean
- blurb -> text

Each dbms supports different datatypes, but there are common datatypes that almost all support. For more information (docs)

### Make the database

- `createdb sandbox`
- `dropdb [database name]`

**This is psql command line api**

### Access the database

- `psql`
- `\q`
- `\l` -> list all the databases
- `\c` -> connect to a database
- `\dt` -> list the tables for a particular database

We need to write some SQL!

Table name should be plural!

```
CREATE TABLE people (id serial primary key, name VARCHAR(255), age INTEGER, birthday DATE, has_glasses BOOLEAN, blurb TEXT);
```

- Make a person - CREATE

```
INSERT INTO people (name, age, birthday, has_glasses, blurb) VALUES ('McK', 9001, '09-08-2000', true, 'I am a leaf on the wind');
```

- Get all people - READ

```
SELECT * FROM people;
```

- Get a specific person or attribute

```
SELECT * FROM people WHERE id = 1;
SELECT age FROM people WHERE name = 'McK';
```

- Update a person

```
UPDATE people SET name = 'McKenneth' WHERE id = 1;
```

- Destroy a person

```
DELETE FROM people WHERE id = 1;
```

### Creating tables and data can be tedious so we can use a file with sql commands that we load into the database

```
psql -d sandbox < students.sql
psql -d sandbox
```

**YOU DO** use select * after each statement to check that your changes were made

- Select the names of all students who have slain more than 1000 dragons `select name from students where dragons_slain > 1000;`
- Update all rows where a student has slain 10 dragons to 1000 dragons slain `update students set dragons_slain = 1000 where dragons_slain = 10;`
- Update all students where `is_da_bes` is false to be true `update students set is_da_bes = true where is_da_bes = false;`
- Delete all students who have slain only 1 dragon `delete from students where dragons_slain = 1;
- Select the name and dragons slain for all students `select name, dragons_slain from students;`

# Lesson Plan - Review Notes

Are learning objectives present and complete?
What is the ratio of talking vs. doing? (60/40, TT/ST-wg vs ST-sg / individual)
What is the level of engagement?
Are exercise plans present?
Any pitfalls with the exercises?
