Delivery Tips:

* Think about how long you're talking
* Move quicker sooner, slower later
* Cold Call more often
* Revisit LOs
* Defer questions when appropriate

# Sequelize

## Learning Objectives

- Explain what Node.js is
- Use NPM to install a package for node
- Explain what an ORM is
- Use an ORM to communicate with our database from JavaScript

## Outline

# What is node?

A JS runtime environment built on the V8 Javascript Engine from the chrome browser. It has been adapted to be used for multiple purposes:

- a local, command line based JS environment
	- can run js programs outside of the browser
- Can be used to build servers using JS as a server-side language

type `node`

# How do we build things?

- Packages! just libraries by another name

# Where do we get them?

- NPM - Node Package Manager -> akin to cdnjs

go to npm

# How do we get started?

- npm init
	- makes a package.json
	- where we put the packages we need for our application
	- allows us to maintain the dependencies for whatever we are building
- npm install --save pg
- npm install --save pg-hstore
- npm install --save sequelize

Can install packages for system use, not just application use

- npm install -g sequelize-cli

# PAUSE!!!

- What is Sequelize? Why do we need it?

- APPLICATION (JS) -> ? -> DBMS (Postgres) -> Database (SQL)
- js code -> needs to be able to represent the data retrieved through postgres
- ORM -> object relational mapper
	- represent our database information as objects in our application!

Sequelize gives us an interface through which we can access our database, and represent information stored in our database in our application

- a single row of data becomes an object
- objects have attributes with values, databases store values for attributes in a table

- Model -> represents our database table
- Objects made by our model -> represent rows in that particular database table

# LETS SEE IT IN ACTION!

ERD - User

- a name -> string
- an age -> integer
- has_glasses -> boolean

# Sequelize makes table creation easy

- sequelize init
- sets up 3 things
	- config file, for connecting to the database on the application level
	- models folder -> stores references to Model constructors
	- migrations folder -> stores code that updates our database structure

## Lets look at our config file
- set database name
- set dialect
- remove username/password

## Make a model
- sequelize model:create --name users --attributes "name:string age:integer has_glasses:boolean"
- sets up 2 things
	- model for the users table
	- migration to create the table and insert the proper columns -> timestamped
		- each migration represents a particular state of our database, must maintain that order


## Lets look at our migration file
- remove timestamps
- represents the current state of the database (structure, current set of attributes, is timestamped)

## Lets look at the model file!
- tweak slightly
	- `, { timestamps: false }`
- defines attributes of the OBJECT form of the database information
- defines behaviors of the OBJECT to manipulate the data in the application

## Lets load it up
- sequelize db:migrate
- lets check the database `psql -d sandbox`
- `\dt`
- `select * from users;`

## Now what??

Make a file called sequelize_playground

`var User = require('./models/index').users;`

CREATE

```
User
	.create(params)
	.then(function(user) {
		console.log(user);
	});
```

check psql.

Create 3 more users with different attributes

READ

```
User
	.findAll()
	.then(function(users) {
		users.forEach(function(userObject) {
			console.log(userObject.toJSON());
		});
	});

User
	.findOne(1)
	.then(function(user) {
		console.log(user.toJSON());
	});

User
	.findAll({
		where: {
			has_glasses: false
		}
	})
	.then(function(users) {
		users.forEach(function(userObject) {
			console.log(userObject.toJSON());
		});
	});

```

UPDATE

```
User
	.findOne(id)
	.then(function(user) {
		user
			.update(params);
			.then(function(updatedUser) {
				console.log(updatedUser.toJSON());
			});
	});

```

DESTROY

```
User
	.findOne(id)
	.then(function(user) {
		user
			.destroy()
			.then(function(){
				console.log('User destroyed');
			});
	})
```

check psql


# Lesson Plan - Review Notes

Are learning objectives present and complete?
What is the ratio of talking vs. doing? (60/40, TT/ST-wg vs ST-sg / individual)
What is the level of engagement?
Are exercise plans present?
Any pitfalls with the exercises?
