Delivery Tips:

* Think about how long you're talking
* Move quicker sooner, slower later
* Cold Call more often
* Revisit LOs
* Defer questions when appropriate

# CRUD with Node

## Learning Objectives

## Outline

* Define a route to create a new item and store it in a database
* Define a route to update an existing database item
* Define a route to delete an existing database item

# First

This internet thing is kinda all about data and how we can refer to and represent it.
Let's outline the relation between the CRUD verbs, http verbs, and sql actions ON THE BACKBOARD

# SETUP - 5 minutes

- Copy the starter app from the instructor folder into YOUR folder for today
- npm install
- createdb todoly_app_development
- sequelize db:migrate
- nodemon
- go to localhost:3000

# Let's look at our server so far

- get /items
- get /items/:id

# We need to add in the routes for performing the remaining CRUD actions

- post /items

### When a post request is sent is the information sent in the HEAD or the BODY?

BODY!! but why?

Post is for sending information to the server to be stored, not requesting information from the server.
HTTP states that when sending information to an application that will affect the state of information on the server the information should be sent in the body of the request and the server should accept that information and store it.

ALSO

- It may potentially hold sensitive information like:
	- your password
	- account information


```
app.post('/items', function(req, res) {
	console.log('POST triggered');
});
```

### How do we get the information once it is sent to the server?

- Check the body of the request app!

```
app.post('/items', function(req, res) {
	console.log('POST triggered');
	console.log(req.body);
});
```

#### It's undefined? but why?

We need middleware! Express doesn't parse the body by default so we need to include middleware that will perform that action for us

```
var bodyParser = require('body-parser');

app.use(bodyParser());
```

Now let's try that again!

Now the information is getting to the server and body parser is parsing the request object.

Next steps
- have sequelize make the object and store it
- have express send back the object to the front end

```
app.post('/items', function(req, res) {
	var itemParams = req.body;

	Item
		.create(itemParams)
		.then(function(newItem) {
			res.send(newItem);
		});
});
```

# BREAK

# Update

What http verb do we use for UPDATE? PUT
What information do we need to update a particular item? ID
What is the base path of our app? /items

Lets build the route!

```
app.put('/items/:id', function(req, res) {
	console.log('PUT action triggered!');
	console.log(req.params)
	console.log(req.body)
});
```

**YOU DO**

Use the information retrieved from the request object to update the appropriate item
You should send the updated object back as the reponse

```
app.put('/items/:id', function(req, res) {
	var newParams = req.body;
	var itemId = req.params.id;

	Item
		.findOne(itemId)
		.then(function(item) {
			item
				.update(newParams)
				.then(function(updatedItem) {
					res.send(updatedItem);
				});
		});
});

```

**YOU DO**

Define the delete route for items?
Hmm...is there a nifty method for delete requests? Check the docs

# Destroy

What http verb do we user for DESTROY? delete
What information do we need to destroy a particular item? ID
What is the base path of our app? /items

```
app.delete('/items/:id', function(req, res) {
	var itemId = req.params.id;

	Item
		.findOne(itemId)
		.then(function(item) {
			item
				.destroy()
				.then(function(){
					res.send(item);
				});
		});
});
```

### REVIEW + Questions

## LET'S PLUG IT INTO A FRONT END
- UNCOMMENT OUT SCRIPT TAGS

# Lesson Plan - Review Notes

Are learning objectives present and complete?
What is the ratio of talking vs. doing? (60/40, TT/ST-wg vs ST-sg / individual)
What is the level of engagement?
Are exercise plans present?
Any pitfalls with the exercises?
