Delivery Tips:

* Think about how long you're talking
* Move quicker sooner, slower later
* Cold Call more often
* Revisit LOs
* Defer questions when appropriate

# REST

## Learning Objectives

- update the routes for blogger
	- post
	- put
	- delete

- Discuss the concept of RESTful routing

## Outline

**YOU DO** 20 minutes

Define a route that will allow you to create a new user and have it stored in the database. The route should respond with the newly created user.

**REVIEW**

**BREAK**

**YOU DO** 20 minutes

Define a route that will allow you to update an existing user. The route should respond with the newly updated user.

**REVIEW**

**BREAK**

**YOU DO** 20 minutes

Define a route that will allow you to delete an existing user. The route should respond with the deleted user object.

**REVIEW**

**BREAK**

# REST

- a way of building web services with certain best practices and guidelines

###### 30 minutes: READ this:
- http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_state_transfer
- http://www.drdobbs.com/web-development/restful-web-services-a-tutorial/240169069

- RESOURCES
	- an object representation on our server
	- for Blogger what is our resource? USERS
- UNIFORM INTERFACE
	- what is the uniform interface?

### DRAW DIAGRAM of RESTful ROUTES ON THE BOARD WITH THE CORRESPONDING VERBS

```
 SQL   CRUD    HTTP      REST          ACTIONS
SELECT READ    GET    /resources       INDEX
INSERT CREATE  POST   /resources       CREATE

SELECT READ    GET    /resources/:id   SHOW
UPDATE UPDATE  PUT    /resources/:id   UPDATE
DELETE DESTROY DELETE /resources/:id   DESTROY
```

- STATELESS DONT DO THIS
	- each request is treated as entirely new
	- the server does not remember you between requests



# Lesson Plan - Review Notes

Are learning objectives present and complete?
What is the ratio of talking vs. doing? (60/40, TT/ST-wg vs ST-sg / individual)
What is the level of engagement?
Are exercise plans present?
Any pitfalls with the exercises?
