Delivery Tips:

* Think about how long you're talking
* Move quicker sooner, slower later
* Cold Call more often
* Revisit LOs
* Defer questions when appropriate

# Testing

### Learning Objectives - Morning

- Explain what testing is and why we do it?
- Explain at a high level what BDD is
- Use mocha to define tests
- Define an calculator using BDD

### Learning Objectives - Afternoon

- Use a BDD workflow to define an object with attributes and behaviors
- Use Mocha to test a Model object
- Retroactively test our model validations

## Outline

# LAPTOPS CLOSED

# What is testing?
- TDD v BDD
- Acceptance
- Integration
- Unit

## Testing Cycle

Draw Picture

- USER STORY
	- feature request
- Acceptance
	- has a User Story been fulfilled
- Integration
	- test components together to make sure they work
- Unit
	- test a single component

## TDD v BDD

#### TDD

**PROS**

- based on simple assertions
	- assert that A will equal B
- helps us write cleaner code
	- write just enough code to pass the test

**CONS**

- very granular
	- hard to write
- not well documented
	- must know how the tests are working for them to be useful
	- not very semantic/expressive

#### BDD
- based on TDD but implemented in such a way that the tests are accessible to more than just the developer writing the tests
- written with a team in mind ( PMs Devs )
	- part of the AGILE workflow
- individual tests read like sentences
	- complete suite reads like a story
- more verbose structure
- focuses on inputs and outputs
	- DRAW picture of a box
- doesn't force implementation
- expect that if i give a function A i will come out as B
	- how you make A == B is up to you!

We are going to do BDD.

# An essential aspect/mantra of testing is...

## RED - GREEN - REFACTOR

when testing you follow this flow:

###### Write a test
###### Run your test and watch it fail
###### Write just enough code to make it pass
###### Run your test and watch it pass(hopefully)
###### Refactor your code and run your tests
###### If green -> more test, if red -> make it pass

#### My first test

```
Copy the starter code 'my_first_test' into your folder for today
npm install
```

### Tools
- Mocha - BDD framework for JS
- Chai - library for adding a 'friendly' syntax for writing tests

### Naming conventions
- suite_code.js
- suite_code_spec.js

- This is an example to show what a test looks like that's passing and failing
- We do not change the test when our test fails, we change the CODE that failed the test

# BREAK

#### Calculator

- setup
	- module.exports = calculator;
	- require('chai').expect;
	- require('../calculator.js');

- add
	- should add two numbers
	- just return 2

```
it("should add two numbers", function() {
	var assertion = calculator.add(1,1);
	expect(assertion).to.equal(2);
});
```

- add
	- should work with no numbers

```
it("should work when no numbers are given", function() {
	var assertion = calculator.add();
	expect(assertion).to.equal(0);
});
```

- Test known conditions and edge cases
	- should only add the first two numbers
	- should work for negative numbers

**YOU DO STUBBED** 20 mins

- subtract
	- two numbers
	- no numbers
	- only first two
	- with negative numbers

**I DO**

- multiply
	- two numbers
	- no numbers
	- with negative numbers

**YOU DO STUBBED** 20 mins

- divide
	- two numbers
	- Zero-division
	- negative numbers

# BREAK BEFORE REVIEW

**YOU DO THEN WE DO - CROWD SOURCED** 30 mins

# Define tests for the factorial and absolute value functions. Use the specs to guide your writing:

- factorial
	- calculates factorial
	- ignores multiple numbers
	- works for 0

- abs (absolute value)
	- for positive numbers
	- for negative numbers

# LUNCH

### Object with attrs/behavior

- We can test more than just simple functions and objects.
- can test out fleshed out objects made with constructors that have
	attributes and behaviors

# DRAW ON BOARD

#### What are the attributes that a person should have?
#### What are the behaviors?

Person
- should have a first name
- should have a last name
- should have an age
- should have a height

**WE DO**
###### fullName
- should contain the first name of the person
- should contain the last name of the person
- should return the full name of the person

###### introduce
- should contain the full name of the person
- should contain the age of the person
- should return a string with with an introduction

**YOU DO**

###### grow
- should change the height of the person
- should increment the height by 1
- should not increment the height past 90

###### haveBirthday
- should change the age of the person
- should increment the age by 1
- should not increment the age past 120

###### getHeight
- should return the height in feet
- should include the number of inches

## Sequelize objects

We can use Mocha and Chai to test our Database Models too!!

```
npm init
npm install --save pg pg-hstore sequelize mocha chai

create a folder: test
create a file: 'test/user_validation_test.js'

Copy the config, migrations, models folders from the validations_ex from Monday
--------------------------------------------

In the user_validation_test.js file add:

var expect = require('chai').expect;
var User = require('../models').users;

```

# Lesson Plan - Review Notes

Are learning objectives present and complete?
What is the ratio of talking vs. doing? (60/40, TT/ST-wg vs ST-sg / individual)
What is the level of engagement?
Are exercise plans present?
Any pitfalls with the exercises?
