Delivery Tips:

* Think about how long you're talking
* Move quicker sooner, slower later
* Cold Call more often
* Revisit LOs
* Defer questions when appropriate

# AJAX

## Learning Objectives

- Explain what AJAX is
- Use AJAX to make an HTTP request for remote data
- Use remote data in an application

## Outline

### What is AJAX?

- Ajax is a technology that allows us to make http requests in the background of our application.
- It is not exclusively an ability of jquery, jQuery just makes it ALOT easier.

**Draw On The Board**

**Normally**
- HTTP request made
- Page loads, all assets, data, and views sent from the server
- to display new information or updated information -> FULL HTTP REQUEST MADE
- Page reloads, new data retrieved and displayed.

**Ajax**

- Page loads with full assets, data, and view
- instead of reloading the page to get information from the server, in the background ajax will make a request to the server
- if there is new information it is sent back, and JS will update the dom with the new information
- Page loads once, and is updated by AJAX and JS as needed

# Parts of the Ajax request

```
var request = $.ajax({
	url: 'path/to/resource',
	method: 'HTTP VERB'
});

```

- Returns an object LETS LOOK INSIDE!! -> we can use this to get our data
- Requests are asynchronous

### What does it mean to be asynchronous?

- Things happen in the background, not in a sequential fashion
- When an http request is made with AJAX the reponse is not immediately available, it takes time for the server to process the request and send a response
- If the application had to wait for the response it would halt the program -> NO BUENO
	- Application becomes unusable until the response returns

```
console.time('How long does JS take to execute this code?')

console.log('Before the ajax request');
var result = $.ajax({ url: 'http://api.giphy.com/v1/gifs/random?api_key=dc6zaTOxFJmzC'});
console.log('Immediately after the ajax request made, result:', result.responseJSON);

console.timeEnd('How long does JS take to execute this code?')
```

look at Network tab -> How long does it take for the AJAX request to receive a response?

look at result.responseJSON in console

-> takes time for the response to come back, but JS doesn't wait
-> need to make sure that we have some code set up to run when the response comes back

### Promises API

- How do we manage the responses that are received? PROMISES
- A set of callback functions that will run when the response is received from the ajax request
- different response based on success, failure, etc

#### `done`
- callback to be run on success (status 200) of an ajax request

```
console.log('Before the ajax request');

var result = $.ajax({ url: 'http://api.giphy.com/v1/gifs/random?api_key=dc6zaTOxFJmzC' });

result.done(function(response) {
	console.log('Response received');
	console.log(response);
});

console.log('Immediately after the ajax request made, result:', result.responseJSON);
```

#### `fail`
- callback to be run on failure (404, 403) of an ajax request

# BREAK

## Gifbomb - 1 hour and change

** I do ** Random

**You do** 30 minutes

Add two functions -> `kittenBomb` and `puppyBomb`
- kitten bomb should make a request to the giphy api for 10 random kitten gifs
- puppy bomb should make a request to the giphy api for 10 random puppy gifs

** You do ** Search -> 30 minutes -> 20 minutes review

# BREAK

## Weather API **WE DO**

### CORS

- Cross Origin Resource Sharing
	- Draw Diagram
- Browsers have a security feature to help prevent malicious code from entering your browser.
- Forbid responses that come from sources other than the current domain
- Our problem: we have NO domain, it's just a file we are using. Our browser won't give us access to the API because the response is coming from somewhere other than NOWHERE.

Our solution: Tell the API to tell the browser it's cool

```
$.ajax({
	url: compiledQuery,
	method: 'GET',
	crossDomain: true,
	withCredentials: true
})
```

- CORS-friendly API
	- sites that have information that is publicly available to anyone (giphy) send a response that let's the browser know it's cool to accept the response. Nothing bad is going to happen.

- Normally, we would make API requests through our server, where we control access (we write the server), and AJAX requests the information from our own server


# Lesson Plan - Review Notes

Are learning objectives present and complete?
What is the ratio of talking vs. doing? (60/40, TT/ST-wg vs ST-sg / individual)
What is the level of engagement?
Are exercise plans present?
Any pitfalls with the exercises?
