Delivery Tips:

* Think about how long you're talking
* Move quicker sooner, slower later
* Cold Call more often
* Revisit LOs
* Defer questions when appropriate

# Intro to Ruby

## Learning Objectives

- Compare and Contrast Ruby and JavaScript data types
- Explain what a symbol is in Ruby
- Explain what a hash is in Ruby
- Compare and Contrast Ruby and JavaScript syntax
- Compare and Contrast Ruby and JavaScript control flow structures

## Outline

# POWER POSE

#### What is ruby?

- created by Matz. Includes bits and pieces of the things he liked about multiple languages
- a blocking language
	- programs run synchronously
- everything returns a value implicitly
	- no need for explicit returns...(mostly)
- used for
	- scripting
		- writing command line tools (submit_hw)
	- building servers
		- Sinatra/Rails

Best way to learn a new language is to compare it to the language that you already know.

###### Variables
- no `var`
- cannot be declared
- must always be given a value
- snake_case variables

Ruby has the following data types:
> nil, boolean, numbers, strings, symbols, hashes

###### samesies 5 mins
- nil -> null, undefined
- Booleans -> true and false

###### slightly different 40 mins
- Numbers
	- integers
	- can be big
	- immutable
- Strings
	- mutable
	- indexed
	- single quotes v double quotes
		- string literal -> will print literally what is in single quotes
		- doubles when you want to do extra stuff like newline and...
	- interpolation
		- no type-casting in ruby
	- multiplication

# BREAK

###### gets and puts

Make a file: `playground.rb`

```
user_input = gets.chomp
puts 'You input: '
print user_input
```

# Exercise - 20 mins

Calculator

Prompt the user to input a math operation
	- add
	- subtract
	- multiply
	- divide
The options should be printed to the console

Prompt the user to input two more numbers. Once two numbers have been input, print out the result of performing the provided math operation with the two numbers.

Now let's make it loop.
- add `loop do...end`
- add break condition
- this is the simplest loop in ruby

```
loop do

puts "Please select a math operation:"
puts "add\nsubtract\nmultiply\ndivide"
puts "Or q to quit"
print ">"
operation = gets.chomp.to_sym

break if operation == :q

puts "Please input two numbers:"
print "Num 1 ->"
num_one = gets.chomp.to_i
print "Num 2 ->"
num_two = gets.chomp.to_i

if operation == :add
	puts "The answer is #{ num_one + num_two }"
elsif operation == :subtract
	puts "The answer is #{ num_one - num_two }"
elsif operation == :multiply
	puts "The answer is #{ num_one * num_two }"
elsif operation == :divide
	puts "The answer is #{ num_one / num_two }" if num_two != 0
	puts "Sorry no zero division in my house!!" if num_two == 0
end

end
```

# Collections

### Arrays
	- negative indices

### Symbols
- an immutable value
- a symbol is denoted with a `:`
	- `:my_symbol`
- A symbol is like a string, except it is only ever created once for the entirety of the program
	- any time we use a symbol we are referencing one location in memory
	- anytime we make a string we are making a new string instance and storing it in memory somewhere
- used to represent values that could we will use multiple times, that could also be strings
- we use symbols for increased performance

```ruby
string_a = 'hello'
string_b = 'hello'

symbol_a = :hello
symbol_b = :hello

string_a.object_id == string_b.object_id

symbol_a.object_id == symbol_b.object_id
```

### Hashes

`{}`

- Like an object in JavaScript but NOT
- a hash is just a key-value pair data store
- generally we use symbols as the keys for our hash

###### Differences
- keys can be ANYTHING
- values cannot be methods, they must be an object
- there is no this, it's just a data storage structure, each key is an independent bucket

```ruby
# create
cars = {
	ford: ['Mustang', 'Escort', 'Taurus'],
	mazda: ['MPV', 'RX-7', '6'],
	honda: ['Civic', 'CRV', 'Accord']
}

# read
cars[:ford]

# update
cars[:bmw] = []
cars[:bmw].push('3-series')

#destroy
cars.delete(:mazda)
```

# PRY!

```
gem install pry

cp under_the_hood.rb

ruby under_the_hood.rb
```

Pry lets us 'pry' into our programs while they are executing.
Nothing is asynchronous so it's easy to just stop and play around while our applications is running

# Exercise

Create a new file `wham_finances.rb` and paste the following code:

```
whamco = {name: 'WHAMco Global Internet and Bodega Incorporated (tm)', address: '41 Union Square West', businesses: {tech: 'whamda', municipal: 'WHAMta'}, board_members: ["McKenneth Scott III", "Anthony DeFreitas", "Hari Mohanraj", "William Shaw"]}
quarterly_earnings = 1000000000000000
```

Place a binding.pry at the bottom of this file and answer the following questions

- How would you access the name of the business?
- How would you access the name of the second board member?
- How would you access only the keys of the hash?
- Change the tech business from `whamda` to `WHAMda`
- Add another key to the hash called `earnings` and store WHAMco's quarterly earnings at that key.

# IF TIME LEFT

- Go to ruby docs and look at STRING, ARRAY, and HASH methods
- Read until lunch and play around in pry!
- Explore!

# Lesson Plan - Review Notes

Are learning objectives present and complete?
What is the ratio of talking vs. doing? (60/40, TT/ST-wg vs ST-sg / individual)
What is the level of engagement?
Are exercise plans present?
Any pitfalls with the exercises?

