Delivery Tips:

* Think about how long you're talking
* Move quicker sooner, slower later
* Cold Call more often
* Revisit LOs
* Defer questions when appropriate

# Request

## Learning Objectives
- Use an npm package to add functionality to our server
- Make an http request for remote data from our server
- Add a back-end to Gifbomb

## Outline

**DRAW DIAGRAM**

# We had a problem...

- CORS
	- browser security feature
	- CO requests are potentially harmful
	- should only make requests through your own server

# Before...

- We used a server that I made, told the browser it was safe
- Now we can do this using our own express servers!

# But we need help!

- go to REQUEST documentation
- `https://www.npmjs.com/package/request`

# What is request?

- an npm package that gives us the ability to perform HTTP requests through our server

# How is this better than just doing it from the browser through AJAX?

We define the server, so we define who our application can talk to. Make sure that we only talk to the domains that we want.

If we are building gifbomb, we will make all requests to the giphy API through our server.
There's no way that our javascripts might go request some bad or malicious code on some weird site...because WE said GO TO GIPHY, and AJAX
is only talking to OUR SERVER.

# Let's use it!

in server.js

`var request = require('request');`

Let's define a route for searching for a random gif.

But first let's look at the documentation

`request(options, callback)`

### What options does it take?

### What does the callback function need to look like?

```
app.get('/search_for_random_gif', function(req, res) {

	request({
		uri: 'http://api.giphy.com/v1/gifs/random',
		method: 'GET',
		qs: { api_key: 'dc6zaTOxFJmzC'},
		json: true
	},
	function(error, response, body) {
		var results = body.data;
		res.send(results);
	});

});
```

- test in the browser

# BREAK

**YOU DO** 30 minutes

### Define the route for searching for a gif by some keyword

The route should accept a query parameter `q` just like giphy with the search query

i.e. `some_route?q=some+keyword`

- It should use this query parameter to perform the search to the giphy api.
- It should return an array of results as JSON

```
app.get('/search_for_gifs', function(req, res) {
	var queryParams = req.query;
	queryParams.api_key = 'dc6zaTOxFJmzC';

	console.log(queryParams)

	request({
		uri: 'http://api.giphy.com/v1/gifs/search',
		method: 'GET',
		qs: queryParams,
		json: true
	},
	function(error, response, body) {
		console.log(body);
		var results = body.data;
		res.send(results);
	});

});
```

# COOL -> Now let's refactor the front end to use the backend we defined

# Lesson Plan - Review Notes

Are learning objectives present and complete?
What is the ratio of talking vs. doing? (60/40, TT/ST-wg vs ST-sg / individual)
What is the level of engagement?
Are exercise plans present?
Any pitfalls with the exercises?
