Delivery Tips:

* Think about how long you're talking
* Move quicker sooner, slower later
* Cold Call more often
* Revisit LOs
* Defer questions when appropriate

# AR Validations

## Learning Objectives
- Explore rails documentation
- Add validations to an AR model

### WHAM Rental 2.0

- copy `apartment_building` from `w10/d03/INSTRUCTOR`

Go to Rails guide for AR Validations

> http://guides.rubyonrails.org/active_record_validations.html

### You Do 30 mina

With a partner read about how AR allows you to add validations to a model.

- What validations are available?
- When are validations run?
- How do we access the errors?

### Answer questions

- run on `save, create, update`
- run when we call `valid? or invalid?`
- errors are added as an attribute of the object you are validating
  - `obj.errors`
- normally validations will fail gracefully, with no notice.
  - can force an error by using `save!, create!, update!`

### What can we validate?
- exclusion / inclusion
  - `validates :attribute, exclusion: { in: [a, b, c] }`
  - used to make sure that a value is NOT within a certain set
  - `validates :attribute, inclusion: { in: [a, b, c] }`
  - used to make sure that a value IS within a certain set
- length
  - `validates :attribute, length: { CONSTRAINT: value}`
  - Constraints
    - minimum:
    - maximum:
    - in:
    - is:
- numericality
  - `validates :attribute, numericality: true`
  - `validates :attribute, numericality: {CONSTRAINT: true or value}`
  - Constraints
    - greater_than:
    - greater_than_or_equal_to:
    - equal_to:
    - less_than:
    - less_than_or_equal_to:
    - odd:
    - even:
- presence / absence
  - `validates :attribute, presence: true`
  - presence means anything that is not nil, "", or " "
  - `validates :attribute, absence: true`
- uniqueness
  - `validates :attribute, uniqueness: true`
  - will search through the database for any matching values in that column
  - can limit uniqueness further
  - `validates :attribute, uniqueness: {scope: :another_attr}`

### I do

add validation to owner model
test out in pry
call valid?
see errors
call save!
see errors
edit values
call valid?
call save!

### You do

#### add validations to the building model
- building number -> presence, numericality, integers only
- street_name -> presence
- city -> presence
- state -> presence, within ['NY','NJ','CT']
- zip_code -> numericality, presence
- floors -> over 0, less than 50, presence

# REVIEW -> have student come up

#### add validations
- apartment_number -> presence
- bedrooms -> presence, numericality, between 0 and 5
- bathrooms -> presence, numericality, between 1 and 5
- vacant -> presence

# review -> have student come up


## Outline

# Lesson Plan - Review Notes

Are learning objectives present and complete?
What is the ratio of talking vs. doing? (60/40, TT/ST-wg vs ST-sg / individual)
What is the level of engagement?
Are exercise plans present?
Any pitfalls with the exercises?
